Myths page (#355)
w3f/polkadot-wiki: docs/learn-faq.md

It is also possible to copy both `own stake` and `other stake` on the Staking page to a spreadsheet and then do a simple calculation.

## Myths

Below we present some myths about Polkadot that we've seen in the community.
We're not absolutely sure what the origin of these myths are -- maybe they arise
from people who have not taken the time to understand Polkadot. Regardless,
we have collected a rebuttal for each of the common myths below. Feel free to

> link out to this page if you see one of these myths propagated on discussion platforms

Reviewer: ```suggestion
link to this page if you see one of these myths propagated on discussion platforms
```

> of the internet. 

Reviewer 2: This kind of sounds like propaganda. "people who have not taken the time to understand Polkadot", "we have collected a rebuttal for each of the common myths". Ouch.

Maybe just like, "Polkadot is a complex system and has evolved over the last three years. Here are some common misunderstandings that we've heard."

### Polkadot is an "Ethereum-killer"

Some people position blockchains antagonistically against each other, claiming
that all of the new blockchains are by default "Ethereum killers". The line of
thinking is that there is a limited market share for blockchain platforms and
therefore all projects are competing and vying for the lion's share. There may
be some truth to this in the wide ecosystem of blockchain projects, but not all
of them.

Polkadot and Ethereum have significant differences in their technology, governance

> ideology, and community that instead forms a complimentary whole instead of a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ideology, and community that instead form a complimentary whole instead of a
```

since this could be rewritten as "the significant differences form..."

divided pie. Polkadot is a network for parachain applications, which may likely
be domain-specific blockchains. Ethereum is instead a smart contract chain that
focuses on maximizing the decentralization of its architecture. For more on the
differences between the two chains see the more comprehensive [comparison article](learn-comparison-ethereum).

In order to be an Ethereum killer, Polkadot would have to be actively working

> against the progression of the Ethereum technology and ecosystem, which is not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
against the progression of the Ethereum technology and ecosystem, which it
```

> true. Instead, Web3 Foundation, the holders of the treasury from the DOT sales, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is not doing. Instead, Web3 Foundation, the holders of the treasury from the DOT sales, 
```

> promotes and funds technology that benefits the web3 world as a whole.

Reviewer 2: This is an opinion, I would cut it and focus on the tech.

> 

Reviewer 3: I would end this section with examples of how exactly we're not working against Eth, but with it.

- emphasize some collaborations
- indicate that bridging the technologies is possible and that a merger - not competition - of the communities is likely
- emphasize research efforts that benefit both platforms, and if possible note contributions from W3F's research to the Eth2 progress so far.
- emphasize that Polkadot does not come with smart contracts and as such does not compete with Ethereum. Rather, it makes it possible for Ethereum alternatives to exist in a secure way, possibly bridging many different smart contract platforms that are currently growing in isolation (Tezos being notable)

### On-chain governance is flawed, it can never work

Blockchain governance is a very young field, and no one knows what works and
what doesn't -- yet. Polkadot's governance arises from a couple key observations,
1) blockchains need some way to adapt and evolve and 2) the only measure of value
that is intrinsic to a blockchain is its native coin and therefore the best
measure of stakeholders for the system are the token holders. There are of
course caveats to the above two observations and that is why Polkadot's governance
is still in its experimental phases. Polkadot takes the approach that it will try

> out best methods and observe how they work and tweak them until they're optimal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
out best methods, observe how they work, and tweak them until they're optimal.
```

> out best methods and observe how they work and tweak them until they're optimal.

Reviewer 3: Might be worth mentioning Kusama's "move fast and don't be afraid of change" attitude here as a perfect testing ground for novel formats of on-chain democracy, for the benefit of everyone's knowledge. 

Also I wouldn't say this addresses the myth per-se - I think we should maybe lead by listing some successful governance examples so far, passing referenda that had a big impact and would have caused hard forks otherwise, but also be honest and list some failures as well. Notably, long-term finality hold-ups are interesting and a problem I'm not sure Eth2 has solved either - it's easy to slash when nodes are offline or double sign, but online and out of sync created a slashless finalization stall which is I think an interesting problem to identify this early.

### Polkadot's governance is plutocratic

Since Polkadot uses "coin-voting" that allows token holders to vote based on the
amount of their holdings, some claim that Polkadot must be plutocratic. 

However, Polkadot's governance is actually more fine-grained than this and has

> built in mechanisms that increase resiliency over plutocracy and cartels. One of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
built-in mechanisms that increase resiliency over plutocracy and cartels. One of
```

> these mechanisms is the council, an elected body that can make motions that will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
these mechanisms is the Council, an elected body that can make motions that will
```

> be voted on as refernda with a bias toward passing. The council acts as the voice

Reviewer: ```suggestion
be voted on as referenda with a bias toward passing. The council acts as the voice
```

for passive token holders or other users of the system that cannot vote. Another

> mechanism that can be employed by any token holder is called _conviction voting_

Reviewer 3: Link to voluntary locking section in governance doc

> and allows any toke holder to amplify their vote for stronger voting power. These

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and allows any token holder to amplify their vote for stronger voting power. These
```

> mechanism that can be employed by any token holder is called _conviction voting_
> and allows any toke holder to amplify their vote for stronger voting power. These

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
mechanism that can be employed by any token holder is called _conviction voting,_
which allows any toke holder to amplify their vote for stronger voting power. These
```

> mechanisms, and more, provide counter weights to the tendency for a simple token

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mechanisms, and more, provide counterweights to the tendency for a simple token
```

voting system to devolve into a plutocracy.

For more on Polkadot's governance please see the [governance page](learn-governance).

### Eth2.0 is better because it has 200,000+ validators and Polkadot has 1000

The answer to this myth is still at this point totally unclear. The argument is
that Eth2.0 will be more decentralized because it supports more validators than
Polkadot. On Eth2.0, the barriers to entry for being a validator can be lower

> because the requirement is only 32 ETH, while on Polkadot it can be many multiples

Reviewer: ```suggestion
because the requirement is only 32 ETH, while on Polkadot it can be the equivalent of many multiples
```

> because the requirement is only 32 ETH, while on Polkadot it can be many multiples

Reviewer 3: This is not an argument, but a fact. 32 eth is listed as an advantage in eth2 because it prevents whales and encourages diverse participation. We need to argue against this advantage or downplay it.

of this. On the flip side Polkadot has a more robust nomination system for electing
the validator set that Eth2.0 lacks. It is still uncertain whether a decentralized

> network can support the network bandwidth and overhead of consensus messages being

Reviewer 3: Not *that* unclear. 100k+ testnets have been running live in production for a while now. This is a weak argument imo. If we can't do this because we don't have BLS aggregation yet, then we should be honest about it. 4k validators is "an easy target" as per [sigp lighthouse blogs](https://lighthouse.sigmaprime.io/update-23.html), so saying a 1000 is our estimate makes it sound weird. To properly defend against this myth, we should:

- explain why we don't have more validators (BLS)
- explain that we don't have beacon nodes, and our validator nodes are full nodes. Ethereum will suffer from a beacon node deficit and incentivization problem, and this should be made clear.
- explain that with remote signing coming up, we will be able to deploy keys on micro-hardware and secure enclaves away from validator nodes, and with such a setup we approach the setup of Eth2 - validator nodes can then be likened to beacon nodes, and validators are in effect these remote keys. With that in mind, we could also theoretically run hundreds of thousands of such keys purely because running them is so light on resources. 
- The real bottleneck is the bandwidth and the logic that our validator nodes have to do - our validators are already gearing up to work with parachains, and the ops they do now will not differ much from the ops they'll be doing when parachains roll around. This will change with XCMP adding bandwidth weight, but parachains should work as is. Ethereum2 on the other hand is just testing the beacon chain, no shards whatsoever, and will initially only use the beacon chain to finalize eth1. This is a major difference in computing responsibilities of our software.

> gossiped among hundreds of thousands of nodes. Polkadot's estimation of 1000

Reviewer: This last sentence is a bit awkwardly worded, and I'm not sure if "realistic" is the right word.  "practical", perhaps?

> validators is a more realistic estimation and if its possible to scale to more

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
validators is a more realistic estimation and if it's possible to scale to more
```

then it's possible for on-chain governance to enable it in the future.

### The auction mechanism for parachains implies they are ephemeral

The myth is that the parachain auction mechanism for Polkadot implies that

> all applications will be ephemeral, or, worse, eventually be bought out by more

Reviewer: ```suggestion
all applications will be ephemeral, or, worse, will eventually be bought out by more
```

wealthy bidders. 

The resolution of this myth is to understand Polkadot's tiered applications offering
that includes parachains, parathreads, and smart contracts. Parachains can

> move to being a parathread and only producing a block when necessary. Parachain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
move to being a parathread and only produce a block when necessary. Parachain
```

> slots are only needed by the applications with heaviest load that need block-by-block

Reviewer 3: I don't think this is a good enough explanation for defi projects, which are all everyone is talking about in Eth right now. Until the next fad comes along, Eth == defi, so we must address this from that angle. 

Defi MUST have block by block production because you'll be trading across parachains, potentially. So if someone builds a synthetix, and someone builds a uniswap, and someone builds a compound, unless those are all on the same chain (governance problems) they need to communicate in sync. As we talked about in teched the other day, there's XCMP overhead to think about, custom token functionality to consider (can't move iBTC to the uniswap chain with Balances SPREE because iBTC has freezing logic in it), and other details that make Polkadot wholly unsuitable for these types of deployments. 

Just imagine MakerDAO - the whole eth financial ecosystem is resting on the shoulders of that giant. If that loses sync, people lose deposits and collateral, and all of defi collapses, it's a black swan waiting to happen. Maker, despite being a huge org, would never deploy on a parachain because it can be bought out or lost. Just the possibility being there, however unlikely, would turn them away. But they would deploy on a system-level contract chain, if one existed.

Rather than "it'll be fine"-ing it, I'd sooner go into detail about app specific blockchains and enterprises running parachains, and state that everyone else will probably end up on either a smart contract parachain made permanent by the governance process, bypassing the lease, or in bridges to Ethereum and Tezos.
